Chinese President Xi Jinping (L) holds a welcome ceremony for visiting Cameroonian President Paul Biya before their talks at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 22, 2018. (Xinhua/Li Tao)
BEIJING, March 22 (Xinhua) -- China and Cameroon on Thursday agreed to give full play to their sound friendship and great potential for cooperation to further advance bilateral relationship.
The statement came as Chinese President Xi Jinping held talks with his Cameroonian counterpart Paul Biya at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
Calling Biya "a senior African leader and an old friend of China," Xi said Cameroon is an important partner of China in Africa.
The two countries have respected each other, treated each other equally and supported each other on issues concerning core interest and major concerns since the two forged diplomatic ties 47 years ago, said Xi.
Biya is the first African president to visit China this year and the first foreign head of state to visit after the annual sessions of China's National People's Congress (NPC) and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC).
Xi called on China and Cameroon to maintain exchanges at all levels and continue to support each other on core interests and major concerns.
China supports Cameroon in choosing its own path of development and speeding up its process of industrialization, said Xi.
China encourages the two countries to expand trade and enhance cooperation in major areas, and more Chinese enterprises to invest there, he said.
He also called on both countries to intensify people-to-people exchanges.
China is ready to work with Cameroon in the areas of peace, security and international affairs to protect the interests of African countries and other developing countries, Xi told Biya.
He encourages Cameroon to take an active part in China's Belt and Road Initiative and work with China to promote the construction of a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation, and build a community with a shared future.
China has upheld justice and pursued shared interests and built relations with Africa based on sincerity, affinity and good faith, he said.
China would always stand by developing countries and be their sincere friend and reliable partner, no matter how the international situation changed or how China developed, Xi told Biya.
Biya said China's long-term assistance to Cameroon has promoted Cameroon's economic and social development and directly benefited Cameroonian people.
Cameroon is committed to enhancing strategic cooperation with China and welcomes more investment from China in industry, agriculture, energy, transportation, housing and new technology, he said.
Cameroon spoke highly of the Belt and Road Initiative and supported cooperation within the framework of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, Biya said.
He said that Cameroon firmly adheres to the one-China policy and is willing to cooperate with China within in the United Nations and other multilateral frameworks.
After the talks, the two presidents witnessed the signing of agreements on economic and technological cooperation, human resources development, infrastructural construction and industrial cooperation.
Biya is paying a state visit to China from Thursday to Saturday at the invitation of Xi.

Chinese President Xi Jinping (2nd R) and his wife Peng Liyuan (1st R) pose for a photo with visiting Cameroonian President Paul Biya (2nd L) and his wife in Beijing, capital of China, March 22, 2018. Xi Jinping held talks with his Cameroonian counterpart Paul Biya at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing Thursday. (Xinhua/Li Xueren)

President Donald Trump signs Presidential Memorandum imposing tariffs and investment restrictions on China, in the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House, Thursday, March 22, 2018, in Washington. (Xinhua Photo)
Reade More :
>China will fight back over U.S. tariffs: Ambassador
>China readies as Trump's trade war plan spells failure
The Chinese Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) announced Friday morning it will impose tariffs on US imports worth $3 billion in a bid to offset its loss incurred by the US' decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.
The products include seven categories and cover 128 types of products, according to a statement on the website of the MOFCOM.
The ministry plans to impose 15 percent tariff on 120 types of products, like fruits, nuts, wine and seamless tubes, worth $977 million. A 25 percent tariff will be imposed on products that include pork and recycled aluminum products.
A MOFCOM spokesperson was quoted as saying in the statement that the US is citing the excuse of national security by imposing 25 percent and 10 percent tariffs on its steel and aluminum product imports.
In line with WTO rules, China decided on a list for suspension of concessions.
If China and the US can't reach trade compensation agreements, China will impose tariffs on the first part of the list of products, the spokesperson noted, adding that tariffs will be imposed on the second part after evaluating the US' influence on China.
China reserves its right to adjust the tariff measures in accordance with practical situations and will fulfill necessary produces in line with WTO rules, according to the spokesperson.
MOFCOM also said it will take legal actions under the WTO framework, safeguarding the stability and authority of a multilateral trade system together with other WTO members.
On Friday morning (Beijing time), US President Donald Trump announced the US will impose tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese goods over "intellectual property theft."
The Chinese Embassy in the US said "It is a typical unilateral trade protectionist action. China is strongly disappointed and firmly opposes such an action."
The US persisted in conducting the "301 investigation" and announced relevant trade measures. The US is ignoring rational voices and disregarding the mutually-beneficial nature of China-US trade relations, along with the consensus reached by the two countries of managing differences constructively through consultations, said a statement on its website Friday.
"But China is not afraid of and will not recoil from a trade war. China is confident and capable of facing any challenge. If a trade war were initiated by the US, China would fight to the end to defend its own legitimate interests with all necessary measures," said a statement released by the Chinese Embassy.
